.TH CLAUDUX 1 "March 2026" "claudux 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
claudux \- Claude API usage monitor for tmux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B claudux-setup
.IR command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B claudux
is a tmux plugin that displays Claude API usage metrics in your tmux status bar.
It supports two data source modes:
.TP
.B Local mode
Parses Claude Code session logs from
.IR ~/.claude/projects/ .
No configuration needed for Claude Code subscribers.
.TP
.B Org mode
Fetches usage data from the Anthropic Admin API.
Requires setting
.BR ANTHROPIC_ADMIN_API_KEY .
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B claudux-setup install
Add claudux segments to
.IR ~/.tmux.conf .
.TP
.B claudux-setup uninstall
Remove claudux segments from
.IR ~/.tmux.conf .
.TP
.B claudux-setup status
Show installation status, dependencies, and cache info.
.TP
.B claudux-setup help
Show brief usage help.
.TP
.B claudux-setup profile list
List all profiles. Active profile is marked with
.BR * .
.TP
.B claudux-setup profile add \fIname\fR [\fB--mode\fR \fIlocal\fR|\fIorg\fR] [\fB--key\fR \fIAPI_KEY\fR] [\fB--dir\fR \fICLAUDE_DIR\fR] [\fB--no-login\fR]
Add a new profile. If \fB--mode\fR is omitted, an interactive prompt lets you
select between Claude subscription (local) or Anthropic Console (org).
For local mode, launches
.B claude setup-token
to authenticate the new profile via browser OAuth.
Each local profile gets its own config directory at
.IR ~/.claude-claudux/<name> .
Use \fB--no-login\fR to skip the interactive login.
For org mode, \fB--key\fR provides the Admin API key.
.TP
.B claudux-setup profile remove \fIname\fR
Remove a profile and its cached data.
.TP
.B claudux-setup profile switch \fIname\fR
Switch to a named profile.
.TP
.B claudux-setup profile next
Rotate to the next profile. Also available via tmux keybinding
.B Ctrl+B R
(configurable via
.BR @claudux_rotate_key ).
.SH SEGMENTS
The following format strings can be used in tmux
.B status-right
or
.B status-left
options:
.TP
.B #{claudux_weekly}
Weekly (7-day) token usage with progress bar and percentage.
Label:
.BR "Weekly:" " (verbose) or " "W:" " (compact)."
.TP
.B #{claudux_monthly}
Monthly (30-day) token usage with progress bar and percentage.
Label:
.BR "Monthly:" " (verbose) or " "M:" " (compact)."
.TP
.B #{claudux_sonnet}
Sonnet model usage with progress bar and percentage.
Label:
.BR "Sonnet:" " (verbose) or " "S:" " (compact)."
.TP
.B #{claudux_opus}
Opus model usage with progress bar and percentage.
Label:
.BR "Opus:" " (verbose) or " "O:" " (compact)."
.TP
.B #{claudux_reset}
Quota reset countdowns for weekly and monthly windows.
Labels:
.BR "Reset Weekly:" " / " "Reset Monthly:" " (verbose) or "
.BR "RW:" " / " "RM:" " (compact)."
Adaptive format: Xd Yh (>24h), Xh Ym (<24h), Xm (<1h).
.TP
.B #{claudux_email}
Account email address (truncated to 20 characters).
Off by default.
.TP
.B #{claudux_profile}
Active profile name. Label:
.BR "Profile:" " (verbose) or " "P:" " (compact)."
.TP
.B #{claudux_status}
Error and stale-data indicators. Always shown.
Displays
.B [!]
on errors and
.B ?
when cache data is stale.
.SH TMUX OPTIONS
All options are set with
.B set -g @option value
in
.IR ~/.tmux.conf .
.TP
.B @claudux_mode
Force data source mode. Values:
.BR auto " (default), " org ", " local .
.TP
.B @claudux_refresh_interval
Cache refresh interval in seconds. Default:
.BR 300 " (5 minutes)."
.TP
.B @claudux_bar_length
Number of characters in progress bars. Default:
.BR 10 .
Range: 5\(en30.
.TP
.B @claudux_warning_threshold
Percentage at which bars turn yellow. Default:
.BR 50 .
.TP
.B @claudux_critical_threshold
Percentage at which bars turn red. Default:
.BR 80 .
.TP
.B @claudux_show_weekly
Show weekly usage segment. Default:
.BR on .
.TP
.B @claudux_show_monthly
Show monthly usage segment. Default:
.BR on .
.TP
.B @claudux_show_model
Show per-model usage segments (Sonnet, Opus). Default:
.BR on .
.TP
.B @claudux_show_reset
Show reset countdown segment. Default:
.BR on .
.TP
.B @claudux_show_email
Show account email segment. Default:
.BR off .
.TP
.B @claudux_rotate_key
Tmux key for profile rotation. Default:
.BR R .
Bound as Ctrl+B <key>.
.TP
.B @claudux_label_mode
Label display mode. Values:
.BR verbose " (default), " compact .
Verbose shows full names (Weekly, Sonnet, Reset Monthly).
Compact shows initials (W, S, RM).
.TP
.B @claudux_label_key
Tmux key to toggle label mode. Default:
.BR T .
Bound as Ctrl+B <key>.
.TP
.B @claudux_help_key
Tmux key to show claudux help popup. Default:
.BR H .
Bound as Ctrl+B <key>.
.SH EXAMPLES
Basic installation:
.PP
.RS
.nf
brew tap jqueguiner/claudux
brew install claudux
claudux-setup install
tmux source-file ~/.tmux.conf
.fi
.RE
.PP
Custom status bar with all segments:
.PP
.RS
.nf
set -g status-right '#{claudux_sonnet} #{claudux_opus} \\
#{claudux_weekly} #{claudux_monthly} #{claudux_reset} \\
#{claudux_status} | %H:%M'
.fi
.RE
.PP
Org mode setup:
.PP
.RS
.nf
export ANTHROPIC_ADMIN_API_KEY=sk-ant-admin-...
.fi
.RE
.PP
Multi-account profiles:
.PP
.RS
.nf
claudux-setup profile add work --mode local
claudux-setup profile add personal --mode local
claudux-setup profile add acme-org --mode org --key sk-ant-admin-...
claudux-setup profile list
claudux-setup profile switch personal
.fi
.RE
.PP
Toggle label mode at runtime:
.PP
.RS
.nf
Ctrl+B T
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show claudux help popup:
.PP
.RS
.nf
Ctrl+B H
.fi
.RE
.PP
Customize thresholds and bar length:
.PP
.RS
.nf
set -g @claudux_warning_threshold 40
set -g @claudux_critical_threshold 70
set -g @claudux_bar_length 15
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.tmux.conf
Tmux configuration file where claudux segments are registered.
.TP
.I ~/.cache/claudux/cache.json
Cached usage data. Automatically refreshed based on
.BR @claudux_refresh_interval .
.TP
.I ~/.claude/projects/
Claude Code session logs directory (local mode source).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_ADMIN_API_KEY
Anthropic Admin API key for org mode. Must start with
.BR sk-ant-admin- .
.TP
.B XDG_CACHE_HOME
Override cache directory location. Defaults to
.IR ~/.cache .
.SH KEYBINDINGS
All keybindings use the tmux prefix (default Ctrl+B).
.TP
.B Ctrl+B H
Show claudux help popup with all keybindings and segments.
Configurable via
.BR @claudux_help_key .
.TP
.B Ctrl+B R
Rotate to next profile.
Configurable via
.BR @claudux_rotate_key .
.TP
.B Ctrl+B T
Toggle between verbose and compact label mode.
Configurable via
.BR @claudux_label_key .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tmux (1),
.BR jq (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Jean-Louis Queguiner
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/jqueguiner/claudux/issues
